# DSF
Decision-support System for Forecaster
Training manual for DSF milestone 1.
Step 1. Install OpenGrADS superpack from the link https://sourceforge.net/projects/opengrads/files/grads2/2.2.1.oga.1/Windows/grads-2.2.1.oga.1-win32_superpack.exe/download
The OpenGrADS is a windows counterpart of the GrADS system that was originally developed for use in Unix-based operating systems. The OpenGrADS, however will require Cygwin environment in windows OS that will be downloaded simultaneously when you download the software.
Step 2. Once OpenGrADS is installed, you may proceed to download requisite files for running of the DFS. The following files are necessary to be copied in to your C:/OpenGrADS/ folder:
i.	gfsplus_decision_support_system_for_forecasters.gs
ii.	two folders named gfs_plus and gfs_raw
iii.	basins_union folder
iv.	xcbar.gs
v.	mul.gs
vi.	gpm_new_c_drive.sh
vii.	.urs_cookies file
viii.	smith_sandwell_topo_v8_2.nc
ix.	tufts-pakistanrivers10-shapefile folder
x.	color.gs
Step 3. Go to C:/OpenGrADS folder and double click opengrads VBScript Script file
Step 4. On prompt for portrait, type n and press enter.
Step 5. On the ga-> prompt type the following command and then press enter:
run gfsplus_decision_support_system_for_forecasters.gs
Step 6. Enter dates as prompted on the screen and press enter.
Step 7. The script will start running and will take approximately 10 minutes to finish.
Step 8. Once the script is prompted with the -> you can check for the outputs generated by the script.
The script will generate:
1.	GFSPLUS images for 7 days of forecast encompassing Indus basin domain. 
2.	GFS images for 7 days of forecast encompassing Indus basin domain. 
3.	GFSPLUS comparison with the NASA GPM IMERG satellite product of 24-hour precipitation.
4.	GFS data archive for precipitation in NetCDF format.
5.	Digitized values of GFSPLUS for average and maximum amounts of precipitation over 24 hours period for six catchments of the Indus basin.
Best,
Burhan Ahmad (Developer)
